---
layout: post
title: "Welcome!"
---

<p style="font-size:medium">
    I just got my PhD in Computer Engineering from <a href="https://www.polito.it/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Polytechnic of Turin</a> (Italy) 🎉. 
    During the last 4 years, I was part of the <a href="https://ellis.eu/units/turin" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">ELLIS</a> <a href="http://vandal.polito.it/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">VANDAL</a> lab, supervised by <a href="http://vandal.polito.it/index.php/people/barbaracaputo/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Professor Barbara Caputo</a> and <a href="https://marcociccone.github.io" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Dr. Marco Ciccone</a>. I joined <b>visiting Stanford University</b> advised by <a href="https://cs.stanford.edu/people/sanmi/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Prof. Sanmi Koyejo</a>.
<br><br>
My research focuses on <b>trustworthy machine learning</b>, with a specific focus on <b>Federated Learning</b> (FL) and <b>fairness</b>, studied through the lens of the loss landscape. 
<br><br>
I received my Master's and Bachelor's degree in <b>Computer Engineering</b> from Politecnico di Torino with maximum grade, completing them in 2020 and 2018 respectively. It was during my Master's thesis titled <i>Towards Real World Federated Learning</i> that I gained my initial hands-on experience with FL. Under the guidance of Prof. Barbara Caputo (Politecnico di Torino), Prof. Fabio Galasso (Sapienza University of Rome) and Dr. Massimiliano Mancini (University of Tübingen), we modeled the interactions among groups of similar clients through a graph-based approach.
<br><br>
I am a proud member and past President of the <a href="https://hknpolito.org/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Mu Nu Chapter</a> of <b>IEEE Eta Kappa Nu</b>, the honor society of IEEE.
<br><br>
</p>

[comment]: <> and the development of algorithms to handle data distributions shifts across clients, with a specific interest in computer vision tasks. 

<h2>Research interesets</h2>
<p style="font-size:medium">
Artificial Intelligence (AI) has the potential to revolutionize numerous domains, but concerns regarding <b><i>fairness</i></b> and <b><i>responsibility</i></b> have emerged as critical considerations. Developing AI algorithms that are fair, accountable, and socially responsible is imperative for mitigating biases and ensuring equitable outcomes. In my current research, I focus on leveraging <b>Federated Learning</b> (FL) as a powerful paradigm to reach such goals. FL aims to learn a global model from disparate users' data, while respecting the privacy regulations in force. Looking at realistic scenarios, my main efforts aim to
<ul style="font-size:medium">
    <li> Learn models providing <b>fair predictions</b> to the entire data distribution, <i>e.g.</i>, not biased towards some less represented demographic groups.</li>
    <li> Broaden the horizons of applicability of FL to <b>real-life vision tasks</b>, such as autonomous driving, or image geo-localization, while introducing realistic constraints, <i>e.g.</i>, the absence of labeled data.</li>
</ul>
<p style="font-size:medium"> For more info and published papers, please visit the <a href="{{ site.url }}/research">Research</a> page.</p>
</p>
